hey this is Paul from Guitar World and
today I'll be showing you how to play
I can't drive 55 from Sammy Hagar I
can't drive 55 is the lead single and
first track from Sammy Hagar's eighth
studio album VOA which was released in
1984 he has kids Sammy Hagar was in his
own band before van Halen had quite a
career this song was based on of course
the federally-mandated speed limit 55
and incidentally sammy got pulled over
for driving 62 and a 55 on his way to
his log cabin in Lake Placid New York
and as the cop was writing the ticket
Sammy was writing the lyrics to the song
very very cool
you're gonna need a humbucking equipped
guitar with a vibrato which will help
but definitely a humbucking equipped
guitar at the very least and you're
going to want a very big arena rock
sound from your amp a lot of lows a lot
of mids and a nice presence on there and
of course you'll need a little bit of
chorus or I should say a touch of chorus
and a little bit of reverb and some
delay you'll hear it which makes all
those chords in this song sound big so
that was the gear but the most important
thing to do this song properly is you
will definitely need a seamless yellow
jumpsuit
starting with Sammy's part let's show
you how to play the intro of the song
one two three four
you
so as you can see the song is pretty
easy it's just your basic three chords
the e the G and the a all downstrokes
now let's get to the second part played
by Gary Pihl this is the alternate
voicing of the same thing and we're
gonna play it up here and it's good to
get a properly into native guitar
because you're going to wring out the
bottom the bottom B and E strings one
two three four
so as you can see that was pretty easy
as well it's the e5 at the seventh fret
the g5 at the tenth fret and then the a5
at the 12th